At some point Greg Komradt says I' if you're doing just 2 by 2, 64 by 64 games' 

What did he mean by this? At like 14:45 of https://youtu.be/AT3Tfc3Um20

In this case, I don't believe that you have a game window that you can watch and observe to learn the rules. Maybe that is the case. Maybe you can see an agent playing the game and learn and observe from it. But then you have your game screen where each move is tracked and you're scored on how well you do. But that's not clear also.

They are trying to benchmark understanding through exploration and measuring the ability to adapt to tasks you cannot prepare for. 


For the ArcAGI 3 Prize, they're focusing on core knowledge priors, but some, not others. There should be no language, there should be no symbols, there should be no trivia, there should be no cultural knowledge. But there should be basic math, basic geometry, agent-ness and object-ness.

I believe you can split a cell down the middle and there's some control. Like, in one of the examples that I see, something goes around and like attaches itself to something and moves that other thing. And some of the squares actually have maybe nine squares within them, which allows you to put a little bit of detail into a particular square. So these are from the public training set screen caps that you see in the talk that Greg gave at the ADI Engineers World Fair.

In fact, I just analyzed it and they're playing with a 16 by 16 grid, but each of the cells contains four more. So you have a 4 by 4 pallet within each cell that you can change and make some designs with. So that allows you to give the pieces orientation. It allows you to distinguish subtly different pieces that, you know, they all have a red border, but then inside they have different colors. So you can get far more nuanced now with the layout and design. But I'm not sure what other controls you have.

It's not clear to me whether or not you have only, you know, up, down, left, right, or if you have any special abilities like hold or jump or what. So that is a major, a major question that needs to be answered before any serious thought can go into it.